# Hindemith
Generic Musical Counterpoint Algorithm

Description: 
This project is designed to produce multi-part music according to rules regarding progression of notes within a part (melody) and simultaneous sounding of 2 or more notes (harmony). Taken together, these types of rules are known as  
counterpoint. The goal was to move the stylistic aspect of the rules as much as possible into external interfaces or classes so that the main class could generate contrapuntal music in a variety of melodic and rhythmic styles, in particular styles of new music composition that would be difficult to realize without a computer (eg. 50 voice microtonal huapango music). To this end, the modal (or pitch-sequence) rules implement a "mode" interface, while the rhythms are generated by a class implementing a "rhythm" interface. Also, rather than generating music based on strict conformance to rules, the approach here is to choose a pitch most in conformance with a set of preferences. Pitches violating these preferences are decremented rather than ruled out. The pitch that has been decremented the least is the pitch that is used. The preferences and penalties are set in a separate 'Decrement' class. The determination of conformance to rules is found in melodic_checks and harmonic_checks methods within the main class. Future versions of this project will probably move the "checks" modules to their own classes. This project uses the jfugue music API for the process of generating actual music. 

Software is in a very virgin state and is the product of a coding novice. However, the software will generate listenable music when run. Software does not have a user input interface for setting preferences or saving files. All preferences must be typed into static variable values at the beginning of the main class and also into the decrement class. Also there is no javadoc and logging has not been moved to logger. Future versions will address these deficiencies.  
